Security 101 Homework: Security Reporting
Part I: Symantec
For Part 1 of your homework assignment, you should primarily use the Symantec Internet Security Threat Report along with independent research to answer the following questions.

What is formjacking?
A form of JavaScript that is used to steal credit card data.


How many websites are compromised each month with formjacking code? 
4,818 websites each month


What is Powershell?
A malicious script commonly used in cyber crime & targeted attacks. 


What was the annual percentage increase in malicious Powershell scripts?
1000%


What is a coinminer?
Something that runs on victims’ devices without their knowledge and uses their CPU power to mine cryptocurrencies. 


How much can data from a single credit card can be sold for? 
$45


How did Magecart successfully attack Ticketmaster? 
They comprised a third party chat bot to place malicious code onto Ticketmaster users web browsers, with the aim of gathering customers’ payment data.

What is one reason why there has been a growth of formjacking? 
The money. Just 10 credit cards stolen from compromised websites could result in a yield of up to $2.2M in theft each month.


Cryptojacking dropped by what percentage between January and December 2018? 
52% decrease 
If a web page contains a coinmining script, what happens? 
The customer's credit card information is at risk of being compromised. 


How does an exploit kit work? 
It seems as if the exploit kit was a popular channel for delivering ransomware but is no longer as effective & therefore the decline in ransomware is believed to be connected with this downward trend in exploit kit usage.


What does the criminal group SamSam specialize in? 
Targeting US Organizations with a notable number of highly damaging attacks

How many SamSam attacks did Symantec find evidence of in 2018? 
67


Even though ransomware attacks declined in 2017-2018, what was one dramatic change that occurred? 
Shifted heavily towards enterprise attacks 


In 2018, what was the primary ransomware distribution method? 
Email Campaigns

What operating systems do most types of ransomware attacks still target?
Windows

What are “living off the land” attacks? What is the advantage to hackers? 
PowerShell usage & uses off the shelf tools and operating system features to conduct attacks. A trend that shows zero sign of abating.

What is an example of a tool that’s used in “living off the land” attacks?
Malicious XML files, Office files or DDE payloads.


What are zero-day exploits?
An attack on the same day that a weakness is discovered in software.


By what percentage did zero-day exploits decline in 2018? 
Down 4% from 27% to 24%.

What are two techniques that worms such as Emotet and Qakbot use?
Dumping passwords from memory or brute-forcing access to network shares to move across a network.

What are supply chain attacks? By how much did they increase in 2018?
A supply chain attack is when someone infiltrates your system through an outside partner or vendor. In 2018, the percentage of attacks increased by 78. 

What challenge do supply chain attacks and living off the land attacks highlight for organizations? 
The attacks are starting to come from trusted channels, using fileless attack methods or legitimate tools for malicious purposes. 


The 20 most active groups tracked by Symantec targeted an average of how many organizations between 2016 and 2018? 
55 organizations.

How many individuals or organizations were indicted for cyber criminal activities in 2018? What are some of the countries that these entities were from? 
49 from Russia, China, Iran & North Korea.

When it comes to the increased number of cloud cybersecurity attacks, what is the common theme? 
Poorly secured cloud databases continue to be a weak point for organizations. Poor configuration.

What is the implication for successful cloud exploitation that provides access to memory locations that are normally forbidden? 
The introduction of several vulnerabilities placed in hardware chips.


What are two examples of the above cloud attack? 
Meltdown and Spectre.

Regarding Internet of Things (IoT) attacks, what were the two most common infected devices and what percentage of IoT attacks were attributed to them? 
Routers and connected cameras were the most infected accounting for 75 and 15 percent of the attacks.  

What is the Mirai worm and what does it do? 
Mirai worm distributes DDoS (Distributed Denial of Service)a worm. Constantly evolving it’s variants use up to 16 different exploits, persistently adding new exploits to increase the success rate for infection. 


Why was Mirai the third most common IoT threat in 2018? 
It found itself as the third most common threat due to the increasing popularity of attacks against industrial control systems (ICS). Ultimately, the emergence of VPNFilter in 2018 brought a revolution of IoT threats. VPNFilter was a departure from traditional IoT threat activity like DDoS and coin mining attacks.

What was unique about VPNFilter with regards to IoT threats?
It was able to survive a reboot which made it very difficult to remove.

What type of attack targeted the Democratic National Committee in 2019? 
Spear-phishing attack

What were 48% of  malicious email attachments in 2018? 
Microsoft Office users accounted for the most email-based malware, with Office files accounting for 48 percent of malicious email attachments. 


What were the top two malicious email themes in 2018? 
“Bill” and “Email delivery failure” were the top 2 themes in 2018. 


What was the top malicious email attachment type in 2018? 
Top attachment type in 2018 was “.doc, .dot”.

Which country had the highest email phishing rate? Which country had the lowest email phishing rate?
Saudi Arabia took the spot for highest with Poland having the lowest. 



What is Emotet and how much did it jump in 2018? 
A form of malware which aggressively expanded its market share from 4% to 16%, a 14% jump in 2018.

What was the top malware threat of the year? How many of those attacks were blocked?
“Heur.AdvML.C” was the top malware threat of the year & had 43,999,373 attacks blocked.


Malware primarily attacks which type of operating system? 
Microsoft (Office Users)


What was the top coinminer of 2018 and how many of those attacks were blocked? 
The top coinminer of 2018 was “JS.Webcoinminer” who had 2,768,721 attacks blocked. 


What were the top three financial Trojans of 2018? 
The top three financial Trojans of 2018 in order of best to last are “Ramnit”, “Zbot” & “Emotet”.


What was the most common avenue of attack in 2018? 
Spear-phishing emails remained the most popular avenue for attack in 2018. 

What is destructive malware? By what percent did these attacks increase in 2018? 
Destructive malware is malicious software with the capability to render affected systems inoperable and challenge reconstitution. Attacks increased by 2%, from 6% to 8%.

What was the top user name used in IoT attacks? 
Top user name in IoT attacks was “root” with 38.1%.

What was the top password used in IoT attacks? 
The top password used in IoT attacks was “123456” with 24.6%. 


What were the top three protocols used in IoT attacks? What were the top two ports used in IoT attacks? 
“Telnet”, “http” and “https” were the top three protocols used in IoT attacks. The top two ports were “23 - telnet” and “80 - World Wide Web HTTP”. 

In the underground economy, how much can someone get for the following? 

Stolen or fake identity: $0.10-1.50
Stolen medical records: $15-20
Hacker for hire: $100+
Single credit card with full details: $1-45
500 social media followers: $2-6
