Cybersecurity Threat Landscape (Part 3 - Verizon)
In this part, you should primarily use the Verizon Data Breaches Investigation Report plus independent research to answer the below questions.

What is the difference between an incident and a breach?
An incident is a security event that compromises the integrity, confidentiality or availability of an information asset where a breach is an incident that results in the confirmed disclosure, not just potential exposure of data to an unauthorized party.


What percentage of breaches were perpetrated by outside actors? What percentage were perpetrated by internal actors?
69% or breaches were from outside actors with internal actors accounting for 34% of activity.


What percentage of breaches were perpetrated by organized criminal groups?
Organized criminal groups accounted for 39% of breaches.

What percentage of breaches were financially motivated?
71% of breaches were financially motivated. 

Define the following:
Denial of Service: Any attack intended to compromise the availability of networks and systems. This includes both network and application attacks designed to overwhelm systems, resulting in performance degradation or interruption of service.

Command and Control: Known as C2 malware, Command and Control involves the installation and subsequent use of C2 malware.  

Backdoor: A backdoor is any method used to get around normal security measures whether they are an authorized or an unauthorized user.

Keylogger: A method to capture user input data, known as a form of a form-grabber or Spyware. 

The time from an attacker’s first action to the initial compromise of an asset is typically measured in which one? Seconds, minutes, hours, days?
Days is how this is typically measured. A “Zero Day Attack” implies that there are zero days between first action & initial compromise.

When it comes to phishing, which industry has the highest click rates?
The Education industry had the highest click rate when it comes to phishing. 
