Web Development

HTTP Requests and Responses
Answer the following questions about the HTTP request and response process.
What type of architecture does the HTTP request and response process occur in? 
Basic Architecture.


What parts make up an HTTP request?
The request line, headers and body.
What is the optional part of an HTTP request?
Body.


What three parts make up an HTTP response?
Status line, headers and body.


Which number class of status codes represent errors?
300


What are the two most common request methods that a security professional will come across?
GET and POST.


Which type of HTTP request method is used for sending data?
PUT Request.


Which part of an HTTP request contains the data being sent to the server?
Body.
In which part of an HTTP response would the browser receive the web code to generate and style a web page?
Status Line. 


Using cURL
Answer the following questions about curl:
What are the advantages of using curl over the browser?
With curl you can pass HTTP headers, cookies and authentication information.
Which curl option is used to change the request method?
-X
Which curl option is used to set request headers?
-h
Which curl option is used to view the response header?
-i
Which request method might an attacker use to scope out usable HTTP requests that an HTTP server will accept?
Smuggling attack?
Sessions and Cookies
Recall that HTTP servers need ways to recognize clients from one another. These are implemented through sessions and cookies.
Answer the following questions about sessions and cookies.
Which response header sends a cookie to the client?

 HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-type: text/html
Set-Cookie: cart=Bob
Set-Cookie
Which request header sets a cookie in the client?

 GET /cart HTTP/1.1
Host: www.example.org
Cookie: cart=Bob
cart=Bob

Example HTTP Requests and Responses
Look through the following example HTTP request and response and answer the following questions.
HTTP Request Example
POST /login.php HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 34
Upgrade-Insecure-Requests: 1
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Linux; Android 6.0; Nexus 5 Build/MRA58N) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/80.0.3987.132 Mobile Safari/537.36

username=Barbara&password=password
What was the request method?
POST
Was the request encrypted or unencrypted?
Encrypted due to the Upgrade-Insecure-Request forcing to HTTPS
Does the request have a user session associated to it?
Yes, Barbara. 
What kind of data is being sent from this request body.
Web Data HTTP Request 
HTTP Response Example
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 16 Mar 2020 17:05:43 GMT
Last-Modified: Sat, 01 Feb 2020 00:00:00 GMT
Content-Encoding: gzip
Expires: Fri, 01 May 2020 00:00:00 GMT
Server: Apache
Set-Cookie: SessionID=5
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains
X-Content-Type: NoSniff
X-Frame-Options: DENY
X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block

[page content]
What was the response status code?
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Was the response encrypted or unencrypted?
Unencrypted
Does this response have a user session associated to it?
Yes, in the Set-Cookies. SessionID=5
What kind of content is likely to be in the [page content] response body?
HTML/Webpage
If your class covered security headers, what security request headers have been included?
X Headers


Monoliths and Microservices
Answer the following questions about monoliths and microservices:
What are the individual components of microservices called?
Services
What is a service that writes to a database and communicates to other services?
Product API 
What type of underlying technology allows for microservices to become scalable and have redundancy? 
Load Balancer
Container Vulnerability Filtering
Answer the following questions about vulnerability filtering Trivy scans with jq:
Do microservices share the same kind of vulnerabilities as regular operating systems?
No?
Would an organization be more concerned with Low severity vulnerabilities as much as Critical?
This question doesn’t make sense to me. I would hope their priority would be on critical vulnerabilities.
Would the bash tool jq be useful in finding certain kinds of vulnerabilities within a vulnerability report?
Yes, would be great for parsing JSON data in Bash.
Deploying and Testing a Container Set
Answer the following questions about multi-container deployment:
What is a tool that can be used to deploy multiple containers at once?
Docker Compose
What kind of file format was required for us to deploy a container set?
YAML
Container Runtime Intrusion Detection Systems
What is a tool used to actively detect intrusion behavior within containers?
IDS or IDP would be used to prevent intrusion. 
What high-value system file might an intruder view that would trigger a sensitive file opening alert?
Config file
What kind of intruder action might trigger an alert from a container IDS that says shell configuration file has been modified?
If the attacker pulls a docker image it will set off several alerts saying the shell configuration file has been modified. 
