The URL Cruise Missile
The URL is the gateway to the web, providing the user with unrestricted access to all available online resources. In the wrong hands can be used as a weapon to launch attacks.
Use the graphic below to answer the following questions:
Protocol
Host Name
Path
Parameters
http://
www.buyitnow.tv
/add.asp
?item=price#1999

Which part of the URL can be manipulated by an attacker to exploit a vulnerable back-end database system? The Parameters


Which part of the URL can be manipulated by an attacker to cause a vulnerable web server to dump the /etc/passwd file? Also, name the attack used to exploit this vulnerability. The Path & Directory Traversal is the attack name.


Name three threat agents that can pose a risk to your organization.
Governments, individuals, organizations.
What kinds of sources can act as an attack vector for injection attacks?
HTML code & SQL.
Injection attacks exploit which part of the CIA triad?
Confidentiality 
Which two mitigation methods can be used to thwart injection attacks?
Input Sanitation and Input Validation







Web Server Infrastructure
Web application infrastructure includes sub-components and external applications that provide efficiency, scalability, reliability, robustness, and most critically, security.
The same advancements made in web applications that provide users these conveniences are the same components that criminal hackers use to exploit them. Prudent security administrators need to be aware of how to harden such systems.
Use the graphic below to answer the following questions:
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Stage 4
Stage 5
Client
Firewall
Web Server
Web Application
Database

What stage is the most inner part of the web architecture where data such as, customer names, addresses, account numbers, and credit card info, is stored? Stage 5


Which stage includes online forms, word processors, shopping carts, video and photo editing, spreadsheets, file scanning, file conversion, and email programs such as Gmail, Yahoo and AOL. Stage 4


What stage is the component that stores files (e.g. HTML documents, images, CSS stylesheets, and JavaScript files) that's connected to the Internet and provides support for physical data interactions between other devices connected to the web? Stage 3


What stage is where the end user interacts with the World Wide Web through the use of a web browser? Stage 1


Which stage is designed to prevent unauthorized access to and from protected web server resources? Stage 2








Server Side Attacks
In today’s globally connected cyber community, network and OS level attacks are well defended through the proper deployment of technical security controls such as, firewalls, IDS, Data Loss Prevention, EndPoint and security. However, web servers are accessible from anywhere on the web, making them vulnerable to attack.
What is the process called that cleans and scrubs user input in order to prevent it from exploiting security holes by proactively modifying user input. Input Sanitation


Name the process that tests user and application-supplied input. The process is designed to prevent malformed data from entering a data information system by verifying user input meets a specific set of criteria (i.e. a string that does not contain standalone single quotation marks). Input Validation?


Secure SDLC is the process of ensuring security is built into web applications throughout the entire software development life cycle. Name three reasons why organization might fail at producing secure web applications. User error, Cost cutting, Poor procedures.


How might an attacker exploit the robots.txt file on a web server? Within the directories. 


What steps can an organization take to obscure or obfuscate their contact information on domain registry web sites? Private domain registry.


True or False: As a network defender, Client-Side validation is preferred over Server-Side validation because it's easier to defend against attacks. False, it can easily be manipulated from the client-side. 










Web Application Firewalls
WAFs are designed to defend against different types of HTTP attacks and various query types such as SQLi and XSS.
WAFs are typically present on web sites that use strict transport security mechanisms such as online banking or e-commerce websites.
Which layer of the OSI model do WAFs operate at? The Application Layer, #7.


A WAF helps protect web applications by filtering and monitoring what? Filters incoming HTTP traffic. 


True or False: A WAF based on the negative security model (Blacklisting) protects against known attacks, and a WAF based on the positive security model (Whitelisting) allows pre-approved traffic to pass. True.

















Authentication and Access Controls
Security enhancements designed to require users to present two or more pieces of evidence or credentials when logging into an account is called multi-factor authentication.
Legislation and regulations such as The Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard requires the use of MFAs for all network access to a Card Data Environment (CDE).


Security administrators should have a comprehensive understanding of the basic underlying principles of how MFA works.


Define all four factors of multifactor authentication and give examples of each:


Factor 1 - Basic Log In (Password or PIN)


Factor 2 - Physical Log In (Key or Fob)


Factor 3 - Biometrics (Face Recognition, Fingerprint Scan)


Factor 4 - Location (via GPS)


True or False: A password and pin is an example of 2-factor authentication. False.


True or False: A password and google authenticator app is an example of 2-factor authentication. True.


What is a constrained user interface? A privilege based interface with restrictions to prevent access to unnecessary data.
