Network Security 

Part 1: Review Questions
Security Control Types
The concept of defense in depth can be broken down into three different security control types. Identify the security control type of each set of defense tactics.
Walls, bollards, fences, guard dogs, cameras, and lighting are what type of security control?

 Answer: Physical 


Security awareness programs, BYOD policies, and ethical hiring practices are what type of security control?

 Answer: Administrative 


Encryption, biometric fingerprint readers, firewalls, endpoint security, and intrusion detection systems are what type of security control?

 Answer: Technical 
Intrusion Detection and Attack indicators
What's the difference between an IDS and an IPS?

 Answer: IPS is “In-line” where IDS is not.


What's the difference between an Indicator of Attack and an Indicator of Compromise?

 Answer: IoA is real time where IoC is not. 





The Cyber Kill Chain
Name each of the seven stages for the Cyber Kill chain and provide a brief example of each.
Stage 1: Reconnaissance


Stage 2: Weaponization


Stage 3: Delivery 


Stage 4: Exploitation


Stage 5: Installation


Stage 6: Command & Control 


Stage 7: Action on Objectives


Snort Rule Analysis
Use the Snort rule to answer the following questions:
Snort Rule #1
alert tcp $EXTERNAL_NET any -> $HOME_NET 5800:5820 (msg:"ET SCAN Potential VNC Scan 5800-5820"; flags:S,12; threshold: type both, track by_src, count 5, seconds 60; reference:url,doc.emergingthreats.net/2002910; classtype:attempted-recon; sid:2002910; rev:5; metadata:created_at 2010_07_30, updated_at 2010_07_30;)
Break down the Sort Rule header and explain what is happening.

 Answer: The first item in a rule is the rule action. The rule action tells Snort what to do when it finds a packet that matches the rule criteria. The next field in a rule is the protocol. There are four protocols that Snort currently analyzes for suspicious behavior. In this case it is tcp.The comes the source address and source port. The direction operator -> indicates the orientation of the traffic to which the rule applies. 


What stage of the Cyber Kill Chain does this alert violate?

 Answer: Installation


What kind of attack is indicated?
 Answer: VNC Scan




Snort Rule #2
alert tcp $EXTERNAL_NET $HTTP_PORTS -> $HOME_NET any (msg:"ET POLICY PE EXE or DLL Windows file download HTTP"; flow:established,to_client; flowbits:isnotset,ET.http.binary; flowbits:isnotset,ET.INFO.WindowsUpdate; file_data; content:"MZ"; within:2; byte_jump:4,58,relative,little; content:"PE|00 00|"; distance:-64; within:4; flowbits:set,ET.http.binary; metadata: former_category POLICY; reference:url,doc.emergingthreats.net/bin/view/Main/2018959; classtype:policy-violation; sid:2018959; rev:4; metadata:created_at 2014_08_19, updated_at 2017_02_01;)
Break down the Sort Rule header and explain what is happening.

 Answer: Alerts for TCP inbound traffic for port 80 using http.


What layer of the Defense in Depth model does this alert violate?

 Answer: Policies, awareness & procedures


What kind of attack is indicated?

 Answer: DLL file download or Policy PE exe file download


Snort Rule #3
Your turn! Write a Snort rule that alerts when traffic is detected inbound on port 4444 to the local network on any port. Be sure to include the msg in the Rule Option.

 Answer: alert tcp $EXTERNAL_NET 4444 -> $HOME_NET any (msg: “ALERT: Potential Trojan or CrackDown”)


Part 2: "Drop Zone" Lab
Log into the Azure firewalld machine
Log in using the following credentials:
Username: sysadmin
Password: cybersecurity
Uninstall ufw
Before getting started, you should verify that you do not have any instances of ufw running. This will avoid conflicts with your firewalld service. This also ensures that firewalld will be your default firewall.
Run the command that removes any running instance of ufw.

 $ sudo apt -y remove ufw


Enable and start firewalld
By default, these services should be running. If not, then run the following commands:
Run the commands that enable and start firewalld upon boots and reboots.

 $ sudo systemctl enable firewalld
 $ sudo systemctl start firewalld


 Note: This will ensure that firewalld remains active after each reboot.


Confirm that the service is running.
Run the command that checks whether or not the firewalld service is up and running.

$ sudo firewall-cmd --state


List all firewall rules currently configured.
Next, lists all currently configured firewall rules. This will give you a good idea of what's currently configured and save you time in the long run by not doing double work.
Run the command that lists all currently configured firewall rules:

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --list-all


Take note of what Zones and settings are configured. You many need to remove unneeded services and settings.


List all supported service types that can be enabled.
Run the command that lists all currently supported services to see if the service you need is available

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --get-services


We can see that the Home and Drop Zones are created by default.


Zone Views
Run the command that lists all currently configured zones.

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --lit-all-zones


We can see that the Public and Drop Zones are created by default. Therefore, we will need to create Zones for Web, Sales, and Mail.


Create Zones for Web, Sales and Mail.
Run the commands that creates Web, Sales and Mail zones.

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --new-zone=web
 $ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --new-zone=sales
 $ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --new-zone=mail


Set the zones to their designated interfaces:
Run the command that sets your eth0 interface to your zones.

$ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=web --change-interface=eth0
$ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=mail --change-interface=eth0
$ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=sales --change-interface=eth0



Add services to the active zones:
Run the commands that add services to the public zone, the web zone, the sales zone, and the mail zone.


Public:

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-service=smtp
$ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-service=http
$ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-service=https
$ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-service=pop3


Web:

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=web --add-service=http


Sales:

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=sales --add-service=https


Mail

$ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=mail --add-service=smtp
$ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=mail --add-service=pop3
What is the status of http, https, smtp and pop3? Open


Add your adversaries to the Drop Zone.
Run the command that will add all current and any future blacklisted IPs to the Drop Zone.

 $ sudo firewall--cmd --permanent --zone=drop --add-source=10.208.56.23
 $ sudo firewall--cmd --permanent --zone=drop --add-source=135.95.103.76
 $ sudo firewall--cmd --permanent --zone=drop --add-source=76.34.169.118



Make rules permanent then reload them:
It's good practice to ensure that your firewalld installation remains nailed up and retains its services across reboots. This ensure that the network remains secured after unplanned outages such as power failures.
Run the command that reloads the firewalld configurations and writes it to memory

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --get-active-zones



View active Zones
Now, we'll want to provide truncated listings of all currently active zones. This a good time to verify your zone settings.
Run the command that displays all zone services.

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --get-active-zones


Block an IP address
Use a rich-rule that blocks the IP address 138.138.0.3.

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-rich-rule=’rule family=”ip4” source address=”138.138.0.3” reject’


Block Ping/ICMP Requests
Harden your network against ping scans by blocking icmp ehco replies.
Run the command that blocks pings and icmp requests in your public zone.

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --add-icmp-block=echo-reply --add-icmp=block=echo-request
Rule Check
Now that you've set up your brand new firewalld installation, it's time to verify that all of the settings have taken effect.
Run the command that lists all of the rule settings. Do one command at a time for each zone.

 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=public --list-all
 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=sales --list-all
 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=mail --list-all
 $ sudo firewall-cmd --zone=web --list-all
 $ sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --zone=drop --list-all


Are all of our rules in place? If not, then go back and make the necessary modifications before checking again.


Congratulations! You have successfully configured and deployed a fully comprehensive firewalld installation.

Part 3: IDS, IPS, DiD and Firewalls
Now, we will work in another lab. Before you start, complete the following review questions.
IDS vs. IPS Systems
Name and define two ways an IDS connects to a network.

 Answer 1: Perimeter

 Answer 2: Host


Describe how an IPS connects to a network.

 Answer: Something physically connected. Usually after a switch.


What type of IDS compares patterns of traffic to predefined signatures and is unable to detect Zero-Day attacks?

 Answer: Signature


Which type of IDS is beneficial for detecting all suspicious traffic that deviates from the well-known baseline and is excellent at detecting when an attacker probes or sweeps a network?

 Answer: Anomaly


Defense in Depth
For each of the following scenarios, provide the layer of Defense in Depth that applies:


A criminal hacker tailgates an employee through an exterior door into a secured facility, explaining that they forgot their badge at home.

 Answer: Physical


A zero-day goes undetected by antivirus software.

 Answer: Application
A criminal successfully gains access to HR’s database.

 Answer: Data


A criminal hacker exploits a vulnerability within an operating system.

 Answer: Host


A hacktivist organization successfully performs a DDoS attack, taking down a government website.

 Answer: Network


Data is classified at the wrong classification level.

 Answer: Policy, procedures & awareness


A state sponsored hacker group successfully firewalked an organization to produce a list of active services on an email server.

 Answer: Perimeter


Name one method of protecting data-at-rest from being readable on hard drive.

 Answer: Encryption


Name one method to protect data-in-transit.

 Answer: VPN 

What technology could provide law enforcement with the ability to track and recover a stolen laptop.

 Answer: Tracker


How could you prevent an attacker from booting a stolen laptop using an external hard drive?

 Answer: Encrypted fireware password



Firewall Architectures and Methodologies
Which type of firewall verifies the three-way TCP handshake? TCP handshake checks are designed to ensure that session packets are from legitimate sources.
Answer: Circuit Level Proxy
Which type of firewall considers the connection as a whole? Meaning, instead of looking at only individual packets, these firewalls look at whole streams of packets at one time.
Answer: Stateful Packet Filter
Which type of firewall intercepts all traffic prior to being forwarded to its final destination. In a sense, these firewalls act on behalf of the recipient by ensuring the traffic is safe prior to forwarding it?
Answer: Application of Proxy
Which type of firewall examines data within a packet as it progresses through a network interface by examining source and destination IP address, port number, and packet type- all without opening the packet to inspect its contents?
Answer: Packet-filtering Firewall
Which type of firewall filters based solely on source and destination MAC address?
Answer: A MAC Firewall
Bonus Lab: "Green Eggs & SPAM"
In this activity, you will target spam, uncover its whereabouts, and attempt to discover the intent of the attacker.
You will assume the role of a Jr. Security administrator working for the Department of Technology for the State of California.


As a junior administrator, your primary role is to perform the initial triage of alert data: the initial investigation and analysis followed by an escalation of high priority alerts to senior incident handlers for further review.


You will work as part of a Computer and Incident Response Team (CIRT), responsible for compiling Threat Intelligence as part of your incident report.



Threat Intelligence Card
Note: Log into the Security Onion VM and use the following Indicator of Attack to complete this portion of the homework.
Locate the following Indicator of Attack in Sguil based off of the following:
Source IP/Port: 188.124.9.56:80
Destination Address/Port: 192.168.3.35:1035
Event Message: ET TROJAN JS/Nemucod.M.gen downloading EXE payload
Answer the following:
What was the indicator of an attack?


Hint: What do the details of the reveal?
Answer: A backdoor Trojan Attack


What was the adversarial motivation (purpose of attack)?

 Answer: Installing malware via .zip attachments


Describe observations and indicators that may be related to the perpetrators of the intrusion. Categorize your insights according to the appropriate stage of the cyber kill chain, as structured in the following table.


TTP
Example
Findings
Reconnaissance
How did the attacker locate the victim?
IP/Port
Weaponization
What was it that was downloaded?
.zip
Delivery
How was it downloaded?
attachment
Exploitation
What does the exploit do?
Installs malware or ransomware
Installation
How is the exploit installed?
Host user opened .zip
Command & Control (C2)
How does the attacker gain control of the remote machine?
Backdoor Trojan Attack
Actions on Objectives
What does the software that the attacker sent do to complete it's tasks?
Gain root access

Answer:
What are your recommended mitigation strategies?

 Answer: Firewall with no open or filtered ports. 
