Penetration Testing 1
Scenario
In this assignment, you will work as a recently hired security analyst at Altoro Mutual, a banking service.
Concerned about their online presence and the security of their website demo.testfire.net, they have hired you to evaluate the security posture of their operations.


As a holder of very sensitive customer and financial data, Altoro Mutual is worried about malicious actors compromising their website and gaining this information.


You are tasked with performing website enumeration, discovery, and vulnerability detection. Because this engagement is non-invasive, you will not try to hack into their system. Rather, you will discover any potential vulnerabilities or leaks that the company should be worried about.
Please note throughout this assignment, you will target a website named "Altoro Mutual" located at demo.testfire.net. Altoro Mutual was designed by IBM, a company that designs both hardware and software for computers. Their website demo.testfire.net was specifically designed to detect web application vulnerabilities.

Step 1: Google Dorking
Altoro Mutual wants to ensure that private information that is unavailable on their public website cannot be found by searching the web.
For example, Altoro Mutual does not mention their executive members on the website. Using Google, can you identify who the Chief Executive Officer is? 
Karl Fitzgerald
How can this information be helpful to an attacker?
Could attempt to crack Password, gain LogIn Credentials or Phish their Email Address. 




Step 2: DNS and Domain Discovery
The reconnaissance phase of a penetration test is possibly the most important phase of the engagement. Without a clear understanding of your client's assets, vulnerabilities can go unnoticed and later exploited.
Navigate to centralops.net.


Enter the IP address for demo.testfire.net into Domain Dossier and answer the following questions based on the results:


Where is the company located?
Sunnyvale, CA
What is the NetRange IP address?
65.61.137.64 - 65.61.137.127
What is the company they use to store their infrastructure?
Rackspace Backbone Engineering
                 4.   What is the IP address of the DNS server?
                       65.61.137.117
Step 3: Shodan
Using Shodan and the information gathered from Google Dorking, find any other useful information that can be used in an attack.
Navigate to shodan.io.


Run a scan against the IP address of the DNS server for demo.testfire.net.


What open ports and running services did Shodan find?
Port 80, 443 & 8080 are open. Found Apache Tomcat/Coyote JSP engine running. 

Step 4: Recon-ng
Altoro Mutual is also concerned about cross-site scripting attacks, which can cause havoc on their website. Verify whether or not Altoro Mutual is vulnerable to XSS by completing the following:
Install the Recon module xssed.
Set the source to demo.testfire.net.
Run the module.
Is Altoro Mutual vulnerable to XSS?
Yes, 1 vulnerability found when running xssed. 
Step 5: Zenmap
Your client has asked that you help identify any vulnerabilities with their file-sharing server. Using the Metasploitable machine to act as your client's server, complete the following:
Use Zenmap to run a service scan against the Metasploitable machine.


Bonus: In the same command, output the results into a new text file named zenmapscan.txt.
Use Zenmap's scripting engine to identify a vulnerability associated with the service running on ports 139/445 port from your previous scan.


Once you have identified this vulnerability, answer the following questions for your client:


What is the vulnerability? 
A microsoft-ds and netbois-ssn Vulnerability
Why is it dangerous? 
Allows hacker access to server  
What are your recommendations for the client to protect their server? 
Close the ports to prevent the vulnerability. If that is not an option, schedule consistent regular SYN scans on the server to monitor suspicious activity. 
Port 8443
